Well, good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. What a fantastic venue this is for a conference. Magnificent. I rather like sporting venues. And actually, I did have some tickets to go to the Ryder Cup today. You might have seen a little promotional film I made for the event. But I thought being at the UKIP conference was very much more important than that. A year ago, a year ago, we had our conference in London with about half the number of delegates that we've got today.

And I said to the UKIP conference last year that we would win the European elections of May 22nd 2014 and that we would create an earthquake in British politics and we did it. Now we were very ably backed and supported by our candidates, by our members, but in particular we were very, very ably backed and generously supported by a Yorkshireman.

Paul Sykes, who helped us create those poster designs, and we thank him for the contribution that he made. And I know that Paul is in the room somewhere here today. Oh, there he is. Hello, Paul. And it's great to see that Paul is still very much here with us and ready for the next battle in May of next year. Thank you. Thank you.

There was only one problem with the campaign and one problem with the poster launch. It's that we hit the front rather earlier than I would have liked. And I remember picking up the Sunday Times and it was three and a half weeks to go before the election. And there it was, UKIP take the lead. And I stared at it and I kept on staring at it. And I realised for the first time ever there was only one thing in life that's more frightening than being behind and that is being in front.

Because the establishment threw at us absolutely everything they got. Even people who we would have thought were friends of ours, the Eurosceptic newspapers, couldn't do enough to say, please, please don't vote UKIP. Please maintain the established political order in this country. You know the established political order that I mean, don't you?

The Labour, Liberal Democrat and Conservative parties. Parties that look the same, parties that sound the same, parties between whom, frankly, on major issues of substance there is now very little difference. And parties that have all been committed to signing Britain up to the European project. Parties that have been wholly uncritical of open door immigration. Parties that have contributed directly

to a downward shift in living standards in this country over the course of the last decade and more. And I'm pleased to say that UKIP voters ignored the establishment and ignored their friends in the media. And they voted for one thing above all. They voted on May the 22nd because they want change.

And we won those elections. We won those elections. But everybody in Westminster and the commentariat comforted themselves by saying, "Don't worry, it's just a protest vote." "Don't worry, UKIP's poll ratings will melt away like springtime snow." And of course they said, "UKIP will never win a single seat in Westminster."

and they convinced themselves that our polls would slide back to four or five or six percent and yet over the course of a summer those poll ratings have held firm over the course of a summer and the early autumn we've been winning district and county council by elections and over the course of a summer i think it's become clear that that vote for ukip it's not a protest vote

They're not voting for us just because they don't like the establishment as it is.

They're voting for us because the establishment has failed them, failed their families and failed their lives. And they're voting for us and they're sticking for us, with us, because they believe that we are the party that most represents them in their lives, with their families and with their thoughts, hopes and aspirations for the future. And I think we're now in touch with a large segment of this country. And as the summer drew to a close, just after the bank holiday Monday,

something quite remarkable happened. Douglas Carswell came to a press conference with me in Westminster, something that had not been leaked or briefed in any way at all, and we were able to produce Douglas at that press conference rather like a political jack-in-the-box. And up appeared Carswell, not just to say that he was going to leave the Conservative Party and join UKIP, but that as a matter of honour. Think about that. Politics. Honour.

that as a matter of honour, he would resign his seat in Westminster and ask the people of Clacton whether he had made the right decision. And Douglas, I have to say, for me, and I'm confident that I speak for every man and woman in this room, that is the bravest and noblest thing I have seen in British politics in my lifetime. But please don't think, because Douglas Carswell used to be in the Conservative Party,

that all of UKIP's support is coming from former Conservatives. You can believe that if you read the mainstream national media, because they, rather like our political class, rarely leave the confines of Westminster or its restaurants or bars. Perhaps I shouldn't have said that myself, but never mind.

They would have you believe that we pose a mortal threat to David Cameron's Conservative Party. But because of UKIP, the Conservative Party will not get a majority at the next general election. They're wrong. The reason the Conservative Party will not get a majority at the next election has nothing to do with us. They've done the job themselves, under David Cameron, very capably indeed. But the story that everybody has missed...

And it's the story that began at the Barnsley by-election when Jane stood for us nearly three years ago. The untold story is that actually in the Midlands and the North and elsewhere in the country, in Wales in particular, in the European elections, you know, and in Wales, UKIP topped the poll in Merthyr Tydfil. You know, I mean, and I don't know, I don't know how many kedgereating, retired half-colonels from the cavalry regiments live in Merthyr Tydfil.

But it's pretty obvious from results like that that we are tearing vast chunks out of the old Labour vote too. And so it is perhaps fortuitous that on October the 9th, when Douglas fights the by-election in Clacton, and by the way, did you know that October the 9th was David Cameron's birthday? So wouldn't that be a lovely present for the Prime Minister? Which I hope you'll deliver Douglas when you see him in the House of Commons the next day.

But also we have on that day a by-election being fought in Hayward and Middleton on the outer edge of Greater Rochdale and you've seen just before me John Bickley, our excellent candidate, somebody who comes himself from what he would describe as a working-class Labour voting background standing for UKIP, an excellent candidate and if you believe the story is coming out

of the Manchester Conference from the Labour Party, we've now got the Labour Party as worried up in Hayward and Middleton as we've got the Conservative Party worried in Clacton. This party is not about left and right. This party is about right and wrong. And so it is no coincidence

that we're holding our party conference this year here in this magnificent Doncaster racecourse. Why are we in Doncaster? Well it's quite simple. Because Ed Miliband is one of the town's MPs and we want to signal to the world that we are now parking our tanks on the Labour Party's lawn for too long now.

Much of the north of England, in its towns and cities, has resembled a one-party state. Towns and cities in which the local Labour authorities and the sitting Labour MPs have absolutely massive majorities. Towns and cities in which the opposition that used to be provided by the Liberal Democrats and by the Conservative Party has frankly melted away to such an extent that they don't even pose a threat.

And with massive majorities and with the one party state, what you get is complacency. And what you get with complacency is indeed a form of corruption. And the first specimen of that we saw in the North was indeed the Donnygate scandal of ten years ago. But that was as nothing to what Labour have now done to much of the North of England.

the total and absolute corruption of our voting system through the establishment back in 2000 of a postal voting system. A postal voting system that has led to fraud, that has led now to intimidation, that has rendered some of our by-elections almost pointless to contest. I mean, think about it. Earlier on this year in the by-election of Wythenshawe,

nominations for candidates closed on the 29th of January and the postal votes were received on the 1st of February. No opportunity for the voters to see the election addresses or to even meet the canvases of the other parties. And no criticism of this do we get from the Liberal Democrats or the Conservatives because actually they are using the postal voting system in their strong areas too. And one of the commitments I will absolutely make

is that when we get Westminster MPs for UKIP, we will campaign for postal voting to be available to people who are elderly, infirm, work overseas or are in the armed forces, but ordinarily we think that people who want to vote should go down to the local primary school and pick up a pencil and put a cross on a piece of paper. But Labour's failure in the north of England, of course, is even worse and even more serious

than the postal voting scandal. What we have seen in Rotherham in particular, but there have been other examples of it too, what we have seen within the one party state of Labour as a direct result of their national policies and as a direct result of their own political correctness at local level is child abuse that has taken place on a scale

that I think is actually difficult for decent people to even comprehend. I think it is just about one of the most shocking things that I've seen in my lifetime in this country. And what we learn, and what's emerged from the witness testimony of people in those councils and even sitting MPs and former MPs is that because they were so scared of causing a division

Within the very multicultural society that they had created they were more fearful of being branded racist than they were of taking on and tackling an evil that existed within that town and that is wrong that is wrong and it and it shows why we need opposition it shows why we need a change in our political culture and I know that some people are saying to me Nigel it's wrong you shouldn't be saying these things

You shouldn't be making this political. This is simply a cultural problem. Well, I'm sorry, but if this isn't political, then what is? So our message is that here in the north of England...

And following on, I hope, John, from a fantastic by-election result in Hayward and Middleton, here in the north of England, many of our target seats will be seats that are currently held by sitting Labour MPs. And tomorrow afternoon, what I will do in my speech is I will show you some of the polling that I've done in northern and southern constituencies over the course of this last week, which will show you that we pose a threat

not just to the Conservative Party, as the papers would have you believe. We pose a threat to the entire British political class, and I'll drink to that. Now, I think we've pretty clearly established ourselves in this country as to what our position is as far as Europe and the European Union's concerned. We love Europe, but we hate the European Union. Alright, it's very simple. I think people know what our position is when it comes to immigration.

You know, we're not against immigration, but we believe the British government should be able to control both the quantity and the quality of those that come into this country. These things are well known and understood. And what you've seen over the course of today is a broadening of our policy base from our excellent new spokesmen and spokeswomen. What you've seen today is the road towards

the manifesto that we will fight the 2015 general election on. And I just want to pick one area, I mean I could pick all of them, but one area that I think comes out of today that is really, really important. And it's a banner that absolutely every one of you who is out there standing or campaigning for UKIP must carry. And it is what Patrick O'Flynn said this morning about the need for their TOTAC

earning the minimum wage in this country. That must be something we carry from here into every election because how could it be right? How could it be right to give people disincentives to get off benefit and to get back into work? And how could it be right that for so many people the minimum wage has actually become the maximum wage?

because of the massive oversupply of labour coming into this country. And it also cannot be right that our political class in Westminster simply seem to be unable to comprehend and understand what the effects of wage compression have been on people's lives. You know, I was out this morning

visiting a factory not too far from here. We popped into the local CAF. I met a couple of guys there and they all said the same thing. They all said we're taking home less money than we were 10 years ago. We're living in divided communities. We don't feel happy with the country we're living in and we want change. And I think that new tax agenda is something we must take out to the country.

And part of our battle against the Labour Party has to be that we confront this myth. The Labour Party will tell everybody that UKIP wants to privatise the NHS, that UKIP wants to charge you for GP appointments. What they don't tell you is that it's the Labour Party, in government from 1997, that introduced the PFI deals on new-build hospitals, which has cost the taxpayer in this country billions to the benefit of...

of many private firms and investors. So let's fight the Labour Party back on the National Health Service. They've done more than anybody, more than anybody to actually bring private money into the health service and it's not UKIP that'll do it. And on policy, yes I nearly forgot, the deficit, that's right. And on the deficit, and again I'm repeating what Patrick said this morning, but leaving the...

will save us £10 billion a year and that's just on the membership fee, let alone the opportunity cost that we will have from being able to now embrace the world, to make trade relationships with people who speak our language and who have common law. The benefits of taking back our fisheries, but most of all the benefits of removing the excessive regulation.

be it employment legislation, be it health and safety at work, be it environmental legislation, I do not believe that Britain's 4.6 million men and women, brave men and women, that are running our small businesses or acting as sole traders should be made to abide by the same rulebook as Unilever and Tesco. We've got to lift the weight of burden off the back. Now, of course, to some extent, there are those that will argue

that today's conference for UKIP has been slightly overshadowed by events taking place in Westminster. And I'm not going to speculate on the timing of that. I don't find it unusual at all. Because I noticed that the day after Mr. Carswell joined us, we were told that the nation was on a state of emergency. So I kind of...

expect these things to happen. If beginning the bombing missions was that important, why couldn't they have met yesterday? But never mind. I just want to remind people of what we've done in terms of our foreign policy over the course of the last decade and more. You know, we went to Afghanistan because we were going to make that a better place and make the streets of Britain safer. Do you remember all that? And then we went to war in Iraq in 2003.

believing that we could topple Saddam Hussein and impose our model of Western democracy upon three very, very different tribal cultures in a country that was originally drawn in the Foreign Office with a ruler and a pencil. And arguably, we haven't made life in Iraq better for anybody. Perhaps most extraordinarily stupid of all is we bombed Libya. Do you remember? We bombed Libya.

It was the big moment for Sarkozy and for Cameron. And because we hadn't got any aircraft carriers, we were actually doing 3,500 mile round trips from North Norfolk to bomb Libya.

And nearly everybody in Westminster agreed. In fact, only 12 members of Parliament voted against us bombing Libya. And without any shadow of a doubt, Libya is now a very much worse country than it was before we bombed it, with its Parliament now actually having to meet on a boat

because it's not safe to meet on land with Christians fleeing in fear of their lives and nearly every single one of those boats attempting to cross the Mediterranean and those loss of hundreds of lives all coming from Libya. And then a year ago, a year ago, do you remember what was happening a year ago? What the Prime Minister proposed was that we armed the rebels in Syria against President Assad. And it turns out

that many of those that we were going to arm have now morphed into the very people that we could be bombing by Saturday morning. In short, what I'm saying to you is our foreign policy has been a total and utter shambles. Now, I can see, I can see

that with the development of Islamic State it is actually rather easier now than it's been at any point in the last 15 years to say this is bad, this is evil, this is wrong. But believe me folks,

Joining a bombing mission as Johnny-come-late Liz to back up the American president and to think that by just dropping bombs somehow in one country somehow we are going to solve that problem is gravely, gravely mistaken. You cannot win wars just by bombing. And when you bomb, you will necessarily kill a large number of civilians in doing so.

and I think once again we are entering into military action without having fully thought through what the consequences are. If the Prime Minister

if the Prime Minister today had made it clear that actually what we were going to do was to form a grand coalition and to do it with Iraq and to do it with Syria and to do it with Nigeria and Kenya and Algeria and that we were going to work with those Arab and African states and that they were going to provide the boots on the ground to initially fight a battle of containment and perhaps ultimately over the long term one of victory and that our role in this

was to provide knowledge, expertise, help and moral support, then I would have voted had I been there with the Prime Minister today. But he has done no such thing. We are launching ourselves off into another bombing mission. And when I hear Mr Cameron telling us that by doing this it will make the streets of Britain safer, well I'm sorry,

but actually I suspect it'll make the streets of Britain rather less safe than they currently are today. Everything that I see from Islamic State says to me that they've actually been teasing us. They actually want us to go in and bomb them and then declare some big great jihad in this or any other country. So I do not believe that today's strategy is the right one. And I also wonder a bit about the home front.

We're busy fighting wars abroad, but what about the home front? What about the radicalisation that has been taking place in our schools, in our prisons? What about the collapse in national self-confidence in much of our leadership? You know, with the last Archbishop of Canterbury even suggesting that we should find and accept Sharia law in Britain's cities.

Well, I agree with you, no. But the point I'm making is, I think actually, the battle, the battle on the home front is really rather an important one, and one in which we have failed very badly. The multi...

the multicultural experiment, the attempt by the state to divide everybody up and keep them separate has been a disaster. It is not what anybody in this country wants and we must be the party that says we put this behind us and we don't care what colour or religion or where people come from, they must be here together in one Britain, together, equal before the law. That is the home front fight that we must win.

And on the home front, we are living through a time and through a period of the most extraordinary political change. The events in Scotland were astonishing, weren't they? An 86% turnout, all of which goes to show that if you actually make politics important, if you make voting relevant, then people will go out and do so.

But the aftermath of that referendum is once again we saw our three leaders get the whole thing completely and utterly wrong through arrogance and through complacency and through their refusal to recognize that the devolution genie is out of the bottle and it's not going to get put. And I'm sorry, but those promises...

that were made on behalf of non-Scottish voters across the rest of the United Kingdom were, as far as I'm concerned, not legitimate and not made in my name. We cannot go on. We cannot go on like this. We cannot go on.

with situations like British English students paying tuition fees because the majority of Scottish MPs voted for them whilst at the same time youngsters in Scotland don't have to pay any tuition fees at all. I know that Mr Cameron did in the aftermath of the referendum promise that he would deliver for England

But I've heard Mr Cameron make promises on England and on Europe and on many other things before and we must hold his feet to the fire because we must fight that election next year absolutely insisting that whilst we believe in a united kingdom

And whilst we are the only UK political party with elected representation in all four corners of the kingdom, we believe that English MPs only must vote on English laws and that has to come to pass. We're living through a period of change.

We're part of a party that I think is an exciting, positive part of that change. And we've talked today about our broader policy manifesto. But I will make a prediction today, ladies and gentlemen. I think the issue that will dominate next year's general election, whether we want it or not, will be the issue of open-door immigration.

It will be, and I say that because the figures are getting higher and higher and higher with every single quarter that passes. We are borderless Britain. And for the other three to even try and pretend that they can control the numbers that come into Britain is them, frankly, not telling the truth. You cannot control your own borders and be a member of the European Union. It is not possible. And if I look at the economic situation in Greece,

and in Italy and in Portugal and in Spain, I fear the numbers that come will get greater and greater. I don't blame youngsters from Italy or Spain for wanting to come here. I do the same thing. But it's no good for our young people and it's no good for our working people to suffer from wage compression, from unemployment and to see a level of social change in our communities that we simply can't keep up with. It is no good

for Labour or the Tories to pretend that a British government can estimate how many primary school places we need, can tell us what healthcare provision we need, if they don't know themselves, within the nearest couple of million, how many people will be living here in five years' time. We must take back control of our borders and manage our own immigration policy. And that policy, I think, will win us many votes in the general election.

You know, earlier this year, in April, in March actually, I was challenged by Nick Clegg, I was challenged by Nick Clegg to do a couple of television debates. And I never thought I'd say it. I never thought there'd ever be a situation where I could stand before you and say that I think the biggest boost

that has ever been given to me and to UKIP was by Nick Clegg because for the first time in nearly 40 years we debated on national television what the European project was actually about. So a big round of applause please for Nick Clegg. And I said at the end of that, come and join our people's army to sweep aside like a new broom

the establishment that has failed us so badly in this country. I was right then and I'm right now and the opportunities that are before us are quite extraordinary and I'm bored and I'm sick to death with being told if you vote UKIP you'll split the vote.

If you vote UKIP you'll get Labour and indeed in parts of South Essex now the Labour Party in by-elections say if you vote UKIP you'll get Conservative and the message that needs to come out from this conference is that actually in our target seats next year in the by-elections and in the general election if you vote UKIP you will get UKIP and if we get this right

And if we win enough seats in that Parliament, in what is going to be a tight general election, we could even say to people, "Vote UKIP to hold the balance of power." And if we hold the balance of power, there won't just be a referendum on our EU membership, there will be a culture change in British politics. It'll be a kind of politics that actually represents ordinary men

and women in this country. It'll be a politics of change. It'll be a politics that is far better than the one we have today. So I'm going to say to people from this conference, let's go out there, let's fight.

In our People's Army, hard on the ground, a tremendous potential prize awaits us. It has been my privilege and my honour to lead you into us winning a national election. And I believe actually the most exciting phase of UKIP's story is about to begin. Thank you very, very much indeed.
